---
layout: post
title:  K.I.S.S.
date:   2012-06-25 01:05:03  -0800
categories: Training
---


Keep it simple, stupid.

Sure, doing dumbbell curls puts your biceps into work.  But do you really need it when you're already doing a chin-up or another compound exercise?  Or if you have 30-minutes to use and you're trying to cut (i.e., lose fat), would you do cardio, ab crunches, or squats?

One of my main pitfalls in the past 10 years was that I listened too much and never really stopped to ask: "What does really work?"  The good thing about the internet is that it provides tons of information; the bad thing, there's just tons of information.  It's up to the person to filter out which ones all that's really needed.

I've followed information from bodybuilders, fitness celebrities, and fitness enthusiasts -- which proves to be the worst because (a.) their training is suited for their already well-developed frame, and (b.) their lifestyle is different than mine (I don't have time 7 days a week to train).

So here's the plan:

* Focus on training/exercises that "works best" -- the essential ones.
* Avoid "investing" time on training that doesn't work -- use time wisely.

So what works best?  Well, the good news is that there's only a handful of them (Hurray!).  The bad news, they're the ones that everyone usually avoid due to various reasons.  Without further ado, this list is mainly comprised of: Deadlifts, (Bench) Presses, and Squats.  Chin-ups is a close fourth.

So before you start doing cardio 3x a week in your next program, you ought to verify first if it's really essential or needed.  Because as in all walks of life, the "basics" is all that matters.  Keep it simple, stupid.