---
layout: post
title:  Bench
date:   2012-08-09 01:02:03  -0800
categories: Training
---




Upperback

* Think about the "driving against the bench" model and why you need your chest up.
* Before you lie down, imagine a hand touching you right between the shoulder blades, and imagine pinching the hand between your shoulder blades.
      * This pinching will also cause you to raise your chest as your upper back tightens, further contributing to a good position.
* Now actively raise your chest, lifting it up as if to show someone your boobs.
* This is the position you will take against the bench.
* **Avoid shrugging the shoulders up** at the end of a rep.
    * There will be a 4- to 6-inch difference in the distance from your hands to your chest from shrugged-back to shrugged-up. This is the extra distance you have to push the bar if you don't keep your shoulders back.

Neck

*     Hold your head about a quarter-inch off the bench during the rep
      *         Think about touching the bench with your hair instead of with your head. 
      *         If your head is held off the bench, your neck muscles are tight.


Lower back, Hips, and Legs

*     Keep the back arched (not bridged!)
      *         Assume your position on the bench, and imagine someone shoving a hand under your low back as you keep your butt in contact with the bench. Then imagine a clenched fist doing the same thing. Keep your lats in mind when you assume this position.

Breathing

*     Valsalva Maneuver
*     Breath a complete inhale/exhale before the set (and not during).
*     Breathing during the set consists only of topping off the huge breath taken before the first rep, after a quick exhalation that might consist of only 10% of tidal volume. 
      *  short refresher of air is just enough to allow the set to be finished more comfortably.
