---
layout: post
title:  What a Novice ought to do?
date:   2012-08-29 01:02:03  -0800
categories: Training
---


The first goal for the novice should be the development of basic usable whole-body strength. Sports performance, general fitness, and improved appearance all depend, first, on the acquisition of basic strength. It is the foundation for all other physical improvement, and it must be the trainee's first concern.


## I. Exercises:

Use the Big Four:

* Squat
* Press
* Bench Press
* Deadlift
* (add Power Clean depending on the athlete's aptitude)


Once the basics have been mastered, accessory exercises can be added:

* Most valuable assistance exercises are those that improve any weaknesses in the basic exercises.   
* They should also be multi-joint, since more muscles involved in an exercise make it both more functional and a better use of training time.

Assistance Exercises to consider:

* Spinal Erectors and Hip Extensors:
    * Back Extensions/Hyperextensions
    * Glute-ham raises
    * Romanian Deadlift
* Back Strength
    * Barbell Row
* Upper Body
    * Chin-ups -- also targets the arms
    * Pull-ups
* Focused Abdominal Exercises
    * Weighted sit-ups
    * Other ab exercises taht isometically load teh abdominals in  a fashion similar to their normal postural-support function.


## II. Reps and Sets:

* Absolute Strength -- very low reps (1 to 3) per set
* Mass/Hypertrophy -- high reps (10 to 12)
* Endurance -- very high reps (20+)

For the novice, target the anaerobic middle work: sets of 5 reps.


Some assistance exercises will be done with higher reps:

* Chin-ups and pull-ups -- target 15 reps, then add weight afterwards.


Decisions on number and sets are to be done  on an individual basis (case by case); however, it is possible to follow the general guidelines:

* Work sets 
    * squats, bench presses, and presses should be 3 sets across (3 sets of the same weigh). 
    * At the most, 5.  At the least, 1.
* Warm-up sets
    * Done as necessary. 
    * More if sore and inflexible; otherwise, fewer.


## III. Scheduling:

Three days a week is ideal:

* adaptation occurs within 24 to 72 hours
    * e.g., MWF

 

## IV. Workloads

For the novice, the law is: learn first, and then load. The first task is to learn the movement pattern without having to worry about how heavy it is.

* Heavy always competes with correct, and at this point correct is much more important. 
* Do not rush this process. This is not the place for impatience.

After the first workout has established the trainee's strength level, subsequent workouts should progressively increase the work-set weights of all the exercises. This should occur at every workout. Weight is the only variable in the progression that is adjusted up. The number of reps is fixed by the metabolic effects that the training program is designed to improve, as discussed above, and in the context of five rep.



As a general rule, the smaller the number of muscles the exercise involves, the longer it will take for the trainee to get stronger at it.

* Squats and Deadlifts -- use large number of large muscles, so they get strong faster, so increasing weights on 'em is faster.
* Bench Presses -- fast progress but slower compared to squats and deadlifts
* Press, Clean, and Snatch -- slower progress due to the use of smaller muscles and technical proficiency.
* Chins and assistance exercises -- slowest since they only involve one joint; the progress is usually monthly.

Other factors affecting progress:

* Sex, size, age, experience, athleticism, and motivation 
* Hormonal, dietary, rest, and motivational circumstances


Linear progress, for as long as it is possible, is the most efficient way to utilize a novice's training time, since every workout yields a strength improvement. This is true even if the increases are very small, like two pounds per week on the press.



## V. The Starting Strength Model

The novice starts with 3 to 4 basic whole body exercises and after warm-up does three work sets.


|Monday | Wednesday | Friday|
|---|---|----|
|Squat | Squat | Squat|
|Bench press/Press | Bench press/Press | Bench press/Press|
|Chin-ups   | Deadlift | Pull-ups|

* Squat, bench press, and press: 3 sets of 5 reps
* Deadlift: 1 set of 5 reps -- due to harder nature
* Chin-ups and pull-ups: failure for 3 sets (unless it's more than 15, then add weight)


### A. Back-off Periods:

Inevitably, progress will stall. There are two basic scenarios:

1. the trainee does everything right but still fails to stimulate further progress
    * At some point, adding weight will cause missed reps in one workout, followed by success at that weight in the following workout. Finally, he will begin to miss the last reps in the work sets for two to three workouts in
        a row.

        * For example, say work set weights for the bench press have been 165 x 5 x 3 on Monday, 167 x 5 x 3 on Friday, 170 x 5 x 3 on Monday, 172 x 4, 172 x 4, 172 x 3 on Friday, and then the same for the next two bench workouts.

    * Back-off by 10% and it should take about 2 weeks to reach the previous high (e.g., 5RM).  (pdf: 167)


2. Progress stalls or regresses because of greed for quick progress or because of a lifestyle factor hat affects recovery
    * Assume that the second trainee is also stuck at 172, except that instead of getting 4 reps for 2 to 3 workouts in a row, the last workout with 172 netted only 1 or 2 successful reps. In this circumstance there is really no point in just backing off 10%.
    * The first back-off workout should be lower in volume
        * 3 work sets of 5 reps should be reduced to only one set.
        * Another approach might be to warm up normally, using standard incremental sets up to the last warm-up, and then stop.
    * The second and third workouts will depend on how much work was being done when progress stalled. 
        * If 3 to 5 work sets were being done, then the second workout would warm up to 10% below the point where progress stalled




Reasoning behind the back-off period approach:


    The reason intensity is kept relatively high while the volume of training is 
    dropped is to maintain neuromuscular efficiency, the ability of the 
    neural system to fire the motor units in a way that allows all the muscles 
    to work together to efficiently display strength in a movement pattern. 
    Basic muscle strength is relatively constant (fig. 8-4) even with 
    reduced training. Neuromuscular efficiency, however, is much more 
    influenced by short-term changes in training. This is why we keep intensity 
    relatively high and cut volume drastically: high intensity develops and 
    maintains neuromuscular efficiency, while high volume with low intensity 
    does not. Keeping the weight within 10% of PR while drastically dropping 
    volume maintains a high state of neuromuscular readiness, while at the 
    same time allowing for some additional recovery. It allows the trainee to 
    resume personal record performance after the backoff period. (pdf 171)



### B. What's next?

Once a back-off period has become necessary, other changes can be made:


Week 1

|Day 1  | Day 2 | Day 3 |
|---|---|----|
|Squat | Front Squat | Squat|
|Bench press | Press | Bench press|
|Chin-ups   | Deadlift | Pull-ups

Week 2

|Day 1  | Day 2 | Day 3 |
|---|---|----|
|Squat | Front Squat | Squat|
|Press | Bench press | Bench press|
|Chin-ups   | Power Clean | Pull-ups|


* Deadlift: 1 set of 5
* Chin-up and pull-ups: if consistently above 10 on any of the 3 sets, add weight so failure happens at 5 to 7


### C. What's next next?

If multiple back-off periods is needed (due to reason number 1 above), a more elaborate programmins is needed: Intermediate Level.

* Usually happens between 3rd and 9th month
* Example: The weight drops 10% to get unstuck, the exercises are changed slightly, and progress is made again until another plateau occurs.  Finally the point is reached where the amount of work needed to disrupt homeostasis exceeds that which the trainee can recover from between workouts.


