---
layout: post
title:  "The Voice"
date:   2014-08-27 14:43:58
categories: life interact
---


I'd like to think that the voice has some calming effects.  In some ways, it should be considered as a mutant power (I'm a super-hero fanboy after all).  Hence, today I set out to find exercises that would help me improve the way I project my voice.  


**1. Resonate your voice through your chest.**  Science has said time and time again that a deeper voice in men is correlated to positive attributes.  The only way to deepen the voice is if one is talking through the chest as opposed thru the throat or nose, and if one coordinates breathing accordingly.

**2. Enunciate and pronounce the words correctly.**  Can you even hear yourself (volume)?  Are you talking thru each syllable you just uttered (tempo/speed)?  

**3. Pause accordingly.** Stop using sounds/words as a crutch (e.g., ummm..., so...) to continuously talk.  Have you start creating any dramatic effect with your pauses?



Most of your power as a man is conveyed through your bodylanguage and the way you speak. In this post I want to spend a few words on the way you speak, just some basics to get the ball rolling. You don't have to sound like Barry White and you don't have to sound like a robot intoning every syllable, but certain principles hold: 

*   Enunciate clearly and slowly — slow the fuck down when you speak—most people speak too fast. Fast speaking stems from a fear that your input is worthless and it bespeaks insecurity and sounds unnnnsexy (even in women, over-fast speaking looks anxious and nervy). There's nothing as annoying as a mumbling person you can't understand or you have to struggle to understand, so speak up. Project your voice, make it heard. Tyler Durden aka Owen Cook doesn't have a deep voice at all but he's excellent at projecting his voice.

*   Don't trail off or end sentences with "so", or end your sentences with uptalk (aka a rising inflection) as though you're maybe asking a question? It's you know, very beta? Speak like a fuckin man maybe, like?

*   Violently excise all lip smacking shit and weird tics like swallowing while talking; it's immensely annoying.

*   Reduce verbal filler, like uhh, uhmm, like, yaknow. Silence is better while you gather your thoughts, as long as it doesn't stretch on too long. In general don't worry about the silences (Ironically, it's when you blather that people are less likely to listen to and value your words.)

*   Don't let people cut you off and talk over you when you're making a point. Finish your sentence.

*   In public speaking use moderate tones. Low talkers (edit: speaking too quietly) and shouters don’t sound confident, and they're annoying.

*   Using vivid metaphors and imagery is a secret to making your words memorable, even captivating. You may not have realised why, but the most boring speakers are speakers who rarely use metaphors and whose words are steeped in fuzzy abstractions.
*   Listen well. It's immensely charming when someone shows a genuine interest in the other person - there's a skill to this, which is hard to convey in writing, but the essence of it is: don't appear to be trying to listen too hard with some ulterior motive. Sincere interest in another person and asking them questions, and not just waiting to speak - this is like psychologically stroking someone. Caveat: tone it town for spastic and hot attention whores.

*   This last one is important: Don't be verbally incontinent. Laconicism is sexier than stream of consciousness blathering. Verbosity is womanly, especially self-absorbed verbosity. Doesn't mean you have to be Clint Eastwood, but unless your personality is fruity and high energy then make your words count, make your input to the group conversation valuable.

---
