---
layout: post
title:  "Impostor Syndrome"
date:   2014-09-30 14:43:58
categories:  Life Career
---

A programmer friend of mine sent me a presentation by  Julie Pagano on Impostor Syndrome.  I believe it's a highly important subject in the coding world (or any world actually).  Below is a link to the video, and the takeaways...



## Impostor Syndrome

"A psychological phenomenon in  which people are unable to internalize their accomplishments."

* To an average person, there's equilibrium in seeing failures and successes.
* To someone who suffers from Impostor Syndrome, "victories diminish in importance; failures loom large."
  * I was just lucky
  * I’m not that smart
  * I’m not a good programmer
  * I’m a FRAUD


1. Those with Impostor Syndrome hold themselves back, do not share knowledge (because of feeling inadequate), avoid collaboration, don't help with open-source, and don't apply for jobs.


2. Those with Impostor Syndrome: "Start small. Remain small.  End up small."


3. Some people with Impostor Syndrome go to other end and feel pressured to play catch-up where they **push themselves too hard** -- upto burnout.  

### Burnout
"Long-term exhaustion and diminished interest in work."  People with burntout makes it hard to come back sometimes -- game over.  


### Dunning-Kruger Effect
“A cognitive bias in which unskilled individuals suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly rating their ability much higher than average.”


## Solutions?

1. Build a Party
* People whom you could trust for feedback
* You're going to have bad days, and this party should provide support

2. Track Measurable Progress
* Have an objective data for you to assess yourself.
* Setting practical and achievable goals.

3. Train Yourself to Look for Positives
* Making a Habit (e.g., once a day?)
* Help others find positives

4. Avoid Negatives
* Avoid "that person" (e.g., nasty person).  They're invalid source of data.
* Avoid creating negative space in the world
  * No feigning surprise
  * No *"well... actually"*
  * No backseat driving

5. Help Others
* It gives you a different perspective on things you don't expect.

6. Kill Your Heroes
* See the human being.




<iframe width="480" height="360"  allowfullscreen="" class="youtube-player" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/1i8ylq4j_EY?wmode=transparent&amp;amp;autoplay=0&amp;amp;rel=0&amp;amp;showinfo=0&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;color=white&amp;amp;" type="text/html"></iframe>





---
