---
layout: post
title:  "Coing?"
date:   2016-09-26 14:42:59
categories: programming
---



I Love Lance & Janice
=====================

You've caught two of your fellow minions passing coded notes back and forth - while they're on duty, no less! Worse, you're pretty sure it's not job-related - they're both huge fans of the space soap opera "Lance & Janice". You know how much Commander Lambda hates waste, so if you can prove that these minions are wasting her time passing non-job-related notes, it'll put you that much closer to a promotion. 

Fortunately for you, the minions aren't exactly advanced cryptographers. In their code, every lowercase letter [a..z] is replaced with the corresponding one in [z..a], while every other character (including uppercase letters and punctuation) is left untouched.  That is, 'a' becomes 'z', 'b' becomes 'y', 'c' becomes 'x', etc.  For instance, the word "vmxibkgrlm", when decoded, would become "encryption".

Write a function called answer(s) which takes in a string and returns the deciphered string so you can show the commander proof that these minions are talking about "Lance & Janice" instead of doing their jobs.


Test cases
==========

Inputs:
    (string) s = "wrw blf hvv ozhg mrtsg'h vkrhlwv?"
Output:
    (string) "did you see last night's episode?"

Inputs:
    (string) s = "Yvzs! I xzm'g yvorvev Lzmxv olhg srh qly zg gsv xlolmb!!"
Output:
    (string) "Yeah! I can't believe Lance lost his job at the colony!!"




    var s = "wrw blf hvv ozhg mrtsg'h vkrhlwv?";
    var s2 = "Yvzs! I xzm'g yvorvev Lzmxv olhg srh qly zg gsv xlolmb!!";

    var output = "did you see last night's episode?";

    function answer(s) {
      let tD = {}; //table decoder
      for (let i=0; i<26; i++) {
        let key = 'a'.charCodeAt(0) + i;
        let value = 'z'.charCodeAt(0) - i;
        tD[String.fromCharCode(key)] = String.fromCharCode(value);
      }
      
      let newS = '';
      for(let i=0; i<s.length; i++) {
        let letter = s[i];
        if(letter >= 'a' && letter <= 'z') 
          newS += tD[letter];
        else 
          newS += letter;
      }
      
      return newS;
    }

    console.log(answer(s));
    console.log(answer(s2));
    //console.log('a'.charCodeAt(0));


    def answer(s):
        print 1
        tD = {}
        for i in range(0, 26):
            key = ord('a') + i
            value = ord('z') - i
            tD[chr(key)] = chr(value)


        newS = ''
        for i in range(0, len(s)):
            letter = s[i]
            if letter >= 'a' and letter <= 'z':
                newS += tD[letter]
            else:
                newS += letter
        return newS

    s = "wrw blf hvv ozhg mrtsg'h vkrhlwv?"
    print(answer(s))
            

Ion Flux Relabeling
===================

Oh no! Commander Lambda's latest experiment to improve the efficiency of her LAMBCHOP doomsday device has backfired spectacularly. She had been improving the structure of the ion flux converter tree, but something went terribly wrong and the flux chains exploded. Some of the ion flux converters survived the explosion intact, but others had their position labels blasted off. She's having her henchmen rebuild the ion flux converter tree by hand, but you think you can do it much more quickly - quickly enough, perhaps, to earn a promotion!

Flux chains require perfect binary trees, so Lambda's design arranged the ion flux converters to form one. To label them, she performed a post-order traversal of the tree of converters and labeled each converter with the order of that converter in the traversal, starting at 1. For example, a tree of 7 converters would look like the following:

   7
 3   6
1 2 4 5

Write a function answer(h, q) - where h is the height of the perfect tree of converters and q is a list of positive integers representing different flux converters - which returns a list of integers p where each element in p is the label of the converter that sits on top of the respective converter in q, or -1 if there is no such converter.  For example, answer(3, [1, 4, 7]) would return the converters above the converters at indexes 1, 4, and 7 in a perfect binary tree of height 3, which is [3, 6, -1].

The domain of the integer h is 1 <= h <= 30, where h = 1 represents a perfect binary tree containing only the root, h = 2 represents a perfect binary tree with the root and two leaf nodes, h = 3 represents a perfect binary tree with the root, two internal nodes and four leaf nodes (like the example above), and so forth.  The lists q and p contain at least one but no more than 10000 distinct integers, all of which will be between 1 and 2^h-1, inclusive.


JavaScript:


      def answer(h, q):
          p = [None] * len(q)
          state = {'x': 0, 'counter': len(p)}
          hashTable = {}
          

          def postOrderTraversal(h):
              if state['counter'] < 1:
                  return None
              elif h <= 0:
                  return None

              z1 = postOrderTraversal(h-1)
              z2 = postOrderTraversal(h-1)
              state['x'] = state['x'] + 1

              if(z1):
                  p[q.index(z1)] = state['x']

              if(z2):
                  p[q.index(z2)] = state['x']

              if state['counter'] < 1:
                  return None
              elif state['x'] in q:
                  state['counter'] = state['counter'] - 1
                  return  state['x']
              else:
                  return None
          
          # coner case
          cornerCase = (2**h) - 1
          if cornerCase in q:
              p[q.index(cornerCase)] = -1
              state['counter'] = state['counter'] - 1
          postOrderTraversal(h)

          return p




      h = 3
      q = [7, 3, 5, 1]
      print answer( h, q )


      h2 = 5
      q2 = [19, 14, 28, 8]
      print(answer(h2, q2))


Python

    def answer(h, q):
        p = [None] * len(q)
        
        def findIt(h, missingZ, stateFactor):
            max = (2**h) - 1
            maxhalf = max/2

            #base
            if missingZ == maxhalf + stateFactor:
                return max + stateFactor
            elif missingZ == maxhalf*2 + stateFactor:
                return max + stateFactor

            if missingZ < maxhalf+stateFactor:
                stateFactor += 0
            else:
                stateFactor += maxhalf

            return findIt(h-1, missingZ, stateFactor)


        for missingZ in q:
            cornerCase = (2**h) - 1
            if cornerCase == missingZ:
                p[q.index(cornerCase)] = -1
            else:
                p[q.index(missingZ)] = findIt(h, missingZ, 0)


        return p




    h = 3
    q = [7, 3, 5, 1]
    print answer( h, q )


    h2 = 5
    q2 = [19, 14, 28, 8]
    print(answer(h2, q2))



Lovely Lucky LAMBs
==================

Being a henchman isn't all drudgery. Occasionally, when Commander Lambda is feeling generous, she'll hand out Lucky LAMBs (Lambda's All-purpose Money Bucks). Henchmen can use Lucky LAMBs to buy things like a second pair of socks, a pillow for their bunks, or even a third daily meal!

However, actually passing out LAMBs isn't easy. Each henchman squad has a strict seniority ranking which must be respected - or else the henchmen will revolt and you'll all get demoted back to minions again! 

There are 4 key rules which you must follow in order to avoid a revolt:
    1. The most junior henchman (with the least seniority) gets exactly 1 LAMB.  (There will always be at least 1 henchman on a team.)
    2. A henchman will revolt if the person who ranks immediately above them gets more than double the number of LAMBs they do.
    3. A henchman will revolt if the amount of LAMBs given to their next two subordinates combined is more than the number of LAMBs they get.  (Note that the two most junior henchmen won't have two subordinates, so this rule doesn't apply to them.  The 2nd most junior henchman would require at least as many LAMBs as the most junior henchman.)
    4. You can always find more henchmen to pay - the Commander has plenty of employees.  If there are enough LAMBs left over such that another henchman could be added as the most senior while obeying the other rules, you must always add and pay that henchman.

Note that you may not be able to hand out all the LAMBs. A single LAMB cannot be subdivided. That is, all henchmen must get a positive integer number of LAMBs.

Write a function called answer(total_lambs), where total_lambs is the integer number of LAMBs in the handout you are trying to divide. It should return an integer which represents the difference between the minimum and maximum number of henchmen who can share the LAMBs (that is, being as generous as possible to those you pay and as stingy as possible, respectively) while still obeying all of the above rules to avoid a revolt.  For instance, if you had 10 LAMBs and were as generous as possible, you could only pay 3 henchmen (1, 2, and 4 LAMBs, in order of ascending seniority), whereas if you were as stingy as possible, you could pay 4 henchmen (1, 1, 2, and 3 LAMBs). Therefore, answer(10) should return 4-3 = 1.

To keep things interesting, Commander Lambda varies the sizes of the Lucky LAMB payouts: you can expect total_lambs to always be between 10 and 1 billion (10 ^ 9).


Test cases
==========

    Inputs:
        (int) total_lambs = 10
    Output:
        (int) 1

    Inputs:
        (int) total_lambs = 143
    Output:
        (int) 3

JavaScript:


    function generous(total_lambs) {
      let rank = 1;
      let counter = 0;
      for(; total_lambs > 0; ) {
        total_lambs -= rank;
        rank *= 2;
        
        if(total_lambs >= 0)
          counter++;
      }
      return counter;
    }


    function stingy(total_lambs){
      let rank = [0, 1];
      let twoJuniors = 1;
      let counter = 0;
      for(; total_lambs > 0;) {
        let totalRank = rank[0] + rank[1];
        total_lambs -= totalRank;
        
        if(twoJuniors < 2) {
          twoJuniors++;
        } else {
          rank[0] = rank[1];
          rank[1] = totalRank;
        }
        
        if(total_lambs >= 0)
          counter++;
      }
      
      return counter;
    }

    let total = 143;

    let x = Math.abs(generous(total) - stingy(total));
    console.log(x);


Python


    def answer(total_lambs):
        def generous(total_lambs):
            rank = 1
            counter = 0
            while(total_lambs > 0):
                total_lambs -= rank
                rank *= 2
                if(total_lambs >= 0):
                    counter += 1
            return counter


        def stingy(total_lambs):
            rank = [0, 1]
            twoJuniors = 1
            counter = 0
            while(total_lambs > 0):
                totalRank = rank[0] + rank[1]
                total_lambs -= totalRank

                if(twoJuniors < 2):
                    twoJuniors += 1
                else:
                    rank[0] = rank[1]
                    rank[1] = totalRank
                if(total_lambs >= 0):
                    counter += 1
            return counter


        return abs(generous(total_lambs) - stingy(total_lambs))

    total_lambs = 143
    print answer(total_lambs)


Fuel Injection Perfection
=========================

Commander Lambda has asked for your help to refine the automatic quantum antimatter fuel injection system for her LAMBCHOP doomsday device. It's a great chance for you to get a closer look at the LAMBCHOP - and maybe sneak in a bit of sabotage while you're at it - so you took the job gladly. 

Quantum antimatter fuel comes in small pellets, which is convenient since the many moving parts of the LAMBCHOP each need to be fed fuel one pellet at a time. However, minions dump pellets in bulk into the fuel intake. You need to figure out the most efficient way to sort and shift the pellets down to a single pellet at a time. 

The fuel control mechanisms have three operations: 

1) Add one fuel pellet
2) Remove one fuel pellet
3) Divide the entire group of fuel pellets by 2 (due to the destructive energy released when a quantum antimatter pellet is cut in half, the safety controls will only allow this to happen if there is an even number of pellets)

Write a function called answer(n) which takes a positive integer as a string and returns the minimum number of operations needed to transform the number of pellets to 1. The fuel intake control panel can only display a number up to 309 digits long, so there won't ever be more pellets than you can express in that many digits.

For example:

* answer(4) returns 2: 4 -> 2 -> 1
* answer(15) returns 5: 15 -> 16 -> 8 -> 4 -> 2 -> 1


      def answer(n):
          counter = 0
          num = long(n)
          while(num > 1):
              if num % 2 == 0:
                  num = num / 2
              elif num == 3 or num % 4 == 1:
                  num -= 1
              elif num % 4 == 3 :
                  num += 1
              else:
                  print 'ruh roh'
                  break
              counter += 1
          return counter




      print "Input: 1. Expected: 0. Actual Answer: ", answer('1')
      print "Input: 2. Expected: 1. Actual Answer: ", answer('2')
      print "Input: 4. Expected: 2. Actual Answer: ", answer('4')
      print "Input: 15. Expected: 5. Actual Answer: ", answer('15')
      print "Input: 17. Expected: 5. Actual Answer: ", answer('17')
      print "Input: 18. Expected: 6 or less. Actual Answer: ", answer('18')
      print "Input: 12. Expected: 7 or less. Actual Answer: ", answer('12')
      print "Input: 1024. Expected: 10 or less. Actual Answer: ", answer('1024')
      print "Input: 1536. Expected: 11 or less. Actual Answer: ", answer('1536')
      print "Input: 1048576. Expected: 20. Actual Answer: ", answer('1048576')
      print "Input: 18446744073709551615. Expected: 64. Actual Answer: ", answer('18446744073709551616')



