---
layout: post
title:  "Beginning Gulp"
date:   2016-03-15 11:00:00 -0800
categories: jekyll
---



## What Worked

* You practiced courage in taking a high-stake, anxiety-inducing situation.
* You studied for the short-term.


## What Didn't

* You weren't ready... like long-term ready.  There are things that you can review up on in the imminent term, and then there are things that could only be learned in the long-term.
* Scheduled the talk a tad bit earlier than your normal functioning hours.
* You didn't effuse and laugh.


## Always:

### Before
* Get Interview Itinerary -- This should include:
  * People whom you'll be talking to and their background.
  * Duration of each interview
  * Type of interview (e.g., technical, group, one-on-one)
* Have questions ready
* Preparation is key, so read up
  * Industry the team is in.
  * Key people.
  * The team's previous products.
  * Be very wary of interviews with less than 2 days notice -- not enought time to prepare

### During
* Be Grounded -- *To me, being grounded means being fully present: physically, emotionally and energetically. It means your mind is not wandering or pulling your energy elsewhere. Your heart and soul are not searching somewhere in the past or looking into the future. (Take a deep breath ... there, you're grounded!)*
  * Breathe and listen to yourself.
* Be calm and composed  -- You want the other party to be composed? You should start it.
* Interact, Connect, and Improv -- with anyone and everyone.
  * Ask your favorite question at each interview (even if it's repetitive to you, each
  person will have a different take on it).
* Improv rule: Avoid being funny.  Humor comes naturally and we want clever lines.


### After
* Expect that they're also interviewing other people -- This means you're not that 
special.  And that even if you did really well to the best of your ability, they'd 
still go with someone who's done it better than you did (so it may not be all you after all).
* There will be a waiting game.  Don't play it by focusing on more important items on your to-do list.




---