---
layout: post
title:  "ES2015"
date:   2016-04-12 00:01:00 -0800
categories: craft
---



## let & const

`let` variables are scoped to the nearest block (i.e., blocked-scoped) and are not hoisted. 

The `let` keyword solves the issue of "registered-but-not-executed" callbacks. In the example below, `i` is shared for each iteration.
Once the event goes through on `click`, the now executed callback will be using the last value of `i`.

      function loopUsingVar(){
        var li = document.querySelectorAll('li')
        for (var i=0; i < li.length; i++) {
          li[i].addEventListener('click', function() {
            console.log(i, li[i]);
          })
        }
      }


The `const` keyword creates **read-only** named constants. Variables declared with `const` must be assigned with an initial value. Behaves like `let`.

       const MAX_USERS = 3`

____

## Functions

**Default Parameter** values help move default values from the function body to the function definition. 

    function exampleFunction(userNames = []){
      let namesLength = userNames.length;
      console.log(namesLength);
    }

**Named Parameters** are used for optional settings to make it easer to understand how a function should be invoked. 
This also gets rid of the verbose boiler plate code, (e.g., `Object.popular`). 

The `= {}` sets the default value to an empty object, and allows the parameter to be omitted during function calls.

    function exampleFunction(name, {popular, expires, activeClass} = {}){
      console.log("Name: ", name);
      console.log("Expires: ", expires);
      console.log("Active: ", activeClass);
    }



The new **rest parameter** syntax allows us to represent an indefinite number of arguments as an **Array**.  
This way, changesl to function signature are less likely to break code. This works well for a **variadic function** which means it accepts individual arguments that can be multiple.

Things to note: The 3 dots are part of the syntax, 
the variable is an array, and it must always go last on the function parameter. 

    function displayTags(targetElement, ...tags){
      let target = _findElement(targetElement);

      for(i in tags) {
        let tag  = tags[i];
        console.log(target, tag);
      }
    }

The **spread operator** allows us to **split an Array** into **individual elements**.  It is used in a function invocation. 

    getRequest('/topics/17/tags', function(data) {
        let tags = data.tags;
        displayTags(...tags);
    });


**Arrow functions** bind to the scope of where they are defined, not where they are used. This is known as **lexical binding**.

    TagComponent.prototype.render = function() {
      getRequest(this.urlPath, (data) => {
        let tags = data.tags;

        // "this" here refers to the scope outside of the `=>` (arrow function)
        displayTags(this.targetElement, ...tags); 
      });
    }


____

## Objects & Strings


**Object Initializer Shorthand.** We can remove duplicate variable names from object properties when those 
properties have the same name as the variables assigned to them. (i.e., from variables to object properties)

    function buildUser(first, last) {
      let fullName = first + ' ' + last;

      // Old Way
      // return {first: first, last: last, fullName: fullName} 

      // ES2015 Way
      return { first, last, fullName };
    }


    function main() {
      let name = 'Sam';
      let age = 45;

      let user = { name, age };  //ES2015 Way
      console.log(user.name);
      console.log(user.age);
    }

**Object Destructuring**.  We can use shorthand to assign properties to local variables with the same name. (i.e., from object properties to variables)

    //Old Way
    let user = buildUser('Sam', 'Williams');
    let first = user.first;
    let last = user.last;
    let fullName = user.fullName;

    // ES2015 Way
    let {first, last, fullName} = buildUser("Sam", "Williams"); 
    console.log(first);
    console.log(last);

    // ES2015 Way
    let {fullName} = buildUser("Katy", "Perry"); // if we only want fullName property destructured.

**Adding a Function to an Object**.  

    function buildUser(first, last) {
      let fullName = first + ' ' + last;

      // Old Way
      /* return {
            first: first, last: last, fullName: fullName,
            isActive: function(){return true;}
          } 
      */


      // ES2015 Way
      return { first, last, fullName,
        isActive(){ return true; } 
      };
    }

**Template Strings.** Preserves white spaces.

    let first = 'Sam';
    let userName = 'SamSmith';

    let veryLongText = `Hi ${first},

    this is a very 
    very

    looong
    text. 

    Regards,
      ${userName}
    `;

The **Object.assign** method copies properties from one or more source objects to a target object specified as the very first argument.
In case of duplicates, the last object on the chain always prevails.

    let defaults = {
      name: 'Sam',
      last: 'Williams'
    };

    let option1 = { name: 'Tim' };
    let option2 = { screenName: 'misterwilliams'};

    let settings = Object.assign({}, defaults, option1, option2);
    console.log(settings);  // Object {name: "Tim", last: "Williams", screenName: "misterwilliams"}


____

## Arrays

**Array Destructuring**.  We can use destructuring to assign multiple values from an array to local variables.  

    let users = ['Sam', 'Tyler', 'Brook'];
    let [a, b, c] = users;
    console.log(a, b, c); // Sam Tyler Brook 

    // Values can be discarded
    let [a, , b] = users;
    console.log(a, b); // Sam Brook


    // Combine Destructuring with Rest Parameter
    let users = ['Sam', 'Tyler', 'Brook'];
    let [first, ...rest] = users;
    console.log(first, rest); // Sam ["Tyler", "Brook"]


The **For...of** statement itereates over **propety values**, and it's a better way to loop over arrays and other **iterable objects**.

    for(let name of names) {
      console.log(name);
    }

**Array.find** returns the first element in the array that satisfies a provided testing function. 

    let users = [
      {login: "Sam",    admin: false},
      {login: "Brook",  admin: true},
      {login: "Tyler",  admin: true}
    ];

    let admin = user.find( user => {return user.admin; });
    // let admin = user.find( user => user.admin);  // Even shorter way

    console.log(admin); // {"login": "Brook", "admin": true}


## Maps

The **Map** object is a simple **key/value** data structure. **Any value** may be used as either a key or a value, and objects
are **not converted** to strings.  

When to use Maps:

* When keys are unknown until runtime.  (When using predefined settings, it's okay to use an object.)
* When all keys are the same type and all values are the same type. (If values are different types, object is a better choice.)
* When you need to iterate because Maps are iterable using `for...of`.

&nbsp;

    let mapSettings = new Map();

    mapSettings.set("user", "Sam");
    mapSettings.set("topic", "ES2015");
    mapSettings.set("replies", ["Can't wait!", "So Cool!"]);

    for(let [key, value] of mapSettings) {
      console.log(`${key} = ${value}`);
    }


**Weakmap** is a type of *Map* where **only objects** can be passed as keys.  Primitive data types -- such as strings, numbers, booleans, etc. -- are **not allowed**.  All available methods on a *WeakMap* require access to an **object used as a key**.  
Also, *WeakMaps* are **no interable.**

Why use *WeakMaps*? Because they are better with memory.  Individual entries in a *WeakMap* can be **garbage collected** 
while the *WeakMap* still exists. *WeakMaps* allows keys that are no longer referenced to be garbage collected.

    let user = {};
    let comment = {};

    let mapSettings2 = new WeakMap();
    mapSettings2.set(user, "user");
    mapSettings2.set(comment, "comment");

    console.log(mapSettings2.get(user));


## Sets

The *Set* object stores **unique** values of any type, whether primitive values or object references.  *Set* objects are 
iterable, which means they can be used with *for...of* and destructuring.

    let tags = new Set();
    tags.add("JavaScript");
    tags.add({version: "2015"});
    tags.add("web");
    tags.add("web"); // This will be ignored since web is already in the Set.

    for(let tag of tags) {
      console.log(tag);
    }

    let [a, b, c, d] = tags; //destructuring
    console.log(a, b, c, d)


The **WeakSet** is a type of *Set* where **only objects** are allowed to be stored.  A *WeakSet* gives us 2 more methods
to use: `has` and `delete` (both return a boolean).  

    let weakTags = new WeakSet();
    weakTags.add("JavaScript"); // TypeError: Invalid value use in weak set
    weakTags.add({name: "JavaScript"});

    let iOS = {name: "iOS"};
    weakTags.add(iOS);

    weakTags.has(iOS);
    weakTags.delete(iOS);


*WeakSets* cannot be used with *for...of* and they offer no methods for reading valuse from it. Since we can't read
values from a *WeakSet*, when should we use it?  We can use *WeakSets* to create special groups from existing objects
without mutating them.  Favoring immutable objects allow for much simpler code with no unexpected side effects.

____

## Classes

New Class Syntax. 


    class SponsorWidget {

      // Constructor. Runs every time a new instance is created with `new` operator
      constructor(name, description, url) {
        this.name = name;
        this.description = description;
        this.url = url;
      }

      // Method
      render() {
        let link = this._buildLink(this.url); // Use `this` to access instance variables within the class
      }
    }

Currently, there are no access modifiers (e.g., private, protected), so prefixing a method with an underscore is a
popular convention that a method should not be called from the public API. 


## Class Inheritance

The **extends** keyword is used to create a class that *inherits methods and properties* from another class.  The **super** 
method runs the constructor function from the parent class.  

Furthemore, The **super object** can be used by a child class to invoke methods from a parent class 


    class Widget {
      constructor(name, description, url) {
        this.baseCSS = "ste-widget";
      }

      parse(value) {
        // ...
      }
    }


    class SponsorWidgent extends Widget {
      constructor(name, description, url) {
        super();  // WE ALMOST ALWAYS WANT THIS TO HAPPEN! This is a method
        // ...
      }

      render(){
        let parsedName = this.parse(this.name); // `this.parse` is an inherited method
        let css = this._buildCSS(this.baseCSS); // `this.baseCSS` is an inherited property
      }

      newParse(){
        let parsedName = super.parse(this.name); // Calls the parent version of the parse() method.
        return `Sponsor: ${parsedName}`;
      }
    }



## Modules I

The *export* keyword exposes the function.  The *default* type export is the simplest way to export a function.

// flash-message.js

    export default function(message) {
      alert(message);
    }

To import modules we use the *import* keyword, specify a new local variable to hold its content,
and use the *from* keyword to tell the JavaScript engine where the module can be found.  The `flashMessage` variable
could have been named anything because the flash-message module is using a `default` type export.

//app.js

    import flashMessage from './flash-message';
    flashMessage("Hello");


**Importing Named Exports** can be done by assigning the *same names* for both export and import.

// flash-message.js

    export function alertMessage(message) {
      alert(message);
    }

    export function logMessage(message) {
      console.log(message);
    }

// app.js

    import { alertMessage, logMessage } from './flash-message';
    alertMessage("Hello Alert");
    logMessage("Hello Log");


**Importing a Module as an Object** 

// flash-message.js

    export function alertMessage(message) { alert(message);}
    export function logMessage(message) { console.log(message);}

// app.js

    import * as flash from './flash-message';
    flash.alertMessage("Hello Alert");
    flash.logMessage("Hello Log");


**Exporting Multiple Functions at Once**

// flash-message.js

    function alertMessage(message) { alert(message);}
    function logMessage(message) { console.log(message);}

    export {alertMessage, logMessage}




## Modules II

**Exporting Constants**

// constants.js

    const MAX_USERS = 3;
    const MAX_REPLIES = 3;

    export {MAX_USERS, MAX_REPLIES}


**Exporting a Class**


// flash-message.js

    class FlashMessage {
      constructor(message){ this.message = message; }

      renderAlert(){ alert(`${this.message}` from Alert); }
      renderLog(){ console.log(`${this.message}` from Log); }
    }

    export { FlashMessage }


// app.js

    import {FlashMessage} from './flash-message';

    let flash = new FlashMessage("Hello");
    flash.renderAlert();
    flash.renderLog();


____

## Promises

Before ES2015, *continuation-passing style* (CPS) async programming is used, wherein we tell a function how to 
continue execution by passing callbacks -- which can grow to a *complicated nested code*.  A **Promise** is a new
abstraction that allows us to write async code in an easier way.

------









