---
layout: post
title:  "Part 7: The Nine"
date:   2016-08-10 00:04:03  -0800
categories: [Business Dealings]
---

1. The Mind
1. The Body
1. The Eyes and Other Sense (photography, fashion, flowers, etc.)
1. The Heart (Love or compassion for whom?)
1. The Will or Conscience (more justice, more morality)
1. The Spirit (Do you want more spirituality in the world?)
1. Entertainment (Do you want more entertainment in the world?)
1. Our Possessions -- are you concerned about better stewardship of our possessions?
1. The Earth -- are you more concerned about the better protection of the planet?

Why are we here? Why are you here? All of these are worthwhile purposes, which one in particular draws you to it, the most?


The Body draws me to a worthwhile purpose.  While I'm here, I'd like to see more people have additional years to their lives because of their healthy bodies, which in turn would allow them to have more of an impact in whatever they do. I'd like for people to experience their physical capabilities to its highest degree, and maybe find out how strong they can be. I enjoy seeing people doing physical activities. I prefer experiencing various sports or being able to do various things as opposed to having various objects or various visits to other parts of the world.


The Mind draws me to a worthwhile purpose next. Without the mind, how could we push the body's needs?  How would we know what works best for our bodies whether be it nutrition, supplements, sleep, or movements?  How could we heal our bodies and souls without the correct information? Disseminating information and knowledge is a worthwhile cause.


The Heart plays the next worthwhile purpose. I particularly would like to make impact to those that are going through the same things I have gone: being a runaway, an outcast, an immigrant, and homeless. Especially those kids and adults who are figuring out life.

Entertainment and The Eyes & Other Senses drew me once before. My work was probably seen by thousands of people, but I'll never know the impact that I have made. They are worthwhile as part of being human, but I don't get drawn to them now. I used to in the past, and even wanted to be a director at one point. But I feel, a big chunk of it was due to the prestige. I could never see myself as the main actor of a movie, but I could see myself as a high profile director -- at least in my dream.


The Spirit is worthwhile next. Finding inner peace can bring so much goodness to a person themself, others, and the world. 


The Will is worthwhile too. Bringing justice to those that can't fight for themselves and finding righteousness.  


The Earth is the next worthwhile cause. While I'm alive, I definitely would want to coexist with the earth's living creatures. 


Finally, our possessions. I am the least concerned of our possessions. They are important and they do play a role, but it excites me the least. 


































